Assignment 3 - Modifying and Rewriting Software - hw3.txt
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Q1) Brady's patch removed the line "case_long_iso_time_stye:" and put case
long_iso_time_style in its place which maintained the switch statement. The
patch also removed the inside of the for loop that had a goto
case_long_iso_time_style, making the removal unnecessary as it would never be
called. By removing the inside of the loop with the goto, the default will
always be the English-speaking Unix format.

Q2) This patched version of coreutils introduces problems with users in foreign
countries where the English-formatted dates would not be easily understood. It
would cause inconsistencies with other date formats according to the locale of
foreign countries since only the traditional English-speaking Unix format would
be used.

Q3) If randline.py is invoked on an empty file like /dev/null, it will return
the following error: IndexError: list index out of range. This is because the
file is empty and the list would have a size of 0, meaning any attempt to access
even index 0 will be out of range, and thus cause an IndexError. The function
that raises the error is random.choice(seq), which returns a random element of
the sequence seq. However, because there are no elements to access and the seq
is empty, the error is raised.

Q4) If the script is run with Python 3 rather than Python 2, the following error
occurs: except IOError as (errno, strerror): SyntaxError: invalid syntax. This
is because the line has incorrect syntax and should actually be "except IOError
as err;". Python 3 doesn't allow iteration over exceptions like Python 2 does.
By removing this feature, the Python code becomes more explicit and
understandable.

